Verhulst
========

The file should use UTF-8 encoding and be written using ReStructured Text. It
will be used to generate the project webpage on PyPI, and should be written for
that purpose.

Typical contents for this file would include an overview of the project, basic
usage examples, etc. Generally, including the project changelog in here is not
a good idea, although a simple "What's New" section for the most recent version
may be appropriate.





Verhulst
========

Verhulst is a `BSD-licensed <http://opensource.org/licenses/BSD-3-Clause>`_
Python library for evaluating binary logistic regressions fitted with
`scikit-learn <http://scikit-learn.org/>`_.

scikit-learn takes a machine learning approach to data analysis and executes
numerical routines using
`liblinear <http://www.csie.ntu.edu.tw/~cjlin/liblinear/>`_, which does not
return certain intermediate results of the logistic regression fitting.
`statsmodels http://statsmodels.sourceforge.net/`_ takes an econometric
approach to data analysis but is not fully compatible with scikit-learn
classifiers. Verhulst aims to fill this gap by providing a consistent API to
statistical analysis and plotting routines commonly used to evaluate logistic
regression fit.

Features
--------

Statistical Analysis

- Pearson Chi-Square Statistic and Deviance
- Hosmer–Lemeshow Tests
- Likelihood Measures
- Summary Measures
- Casewise Statistics

Plotting

- Diagnostic Plots
- Residual Plots
- Goodness-of-Fit Plots

scikit-learn fits logistic regressions using
`liblinear <http://www.csie.ntu.edu.tw/~cjlin/liblinear/>`_, which does not
return the likelihoods of the null or fitted models. Verhulst therefore omits
popular likelihood-based (Cox-Snell, Nagelkerke) and log-likelihood-based
(McFadden) summary measures.

A Remark About Interpretation
-----------------------------

Some of the statistical tests and measures implemented in this library are not
intuitively easy to explain. Some are outdated and not recommended for general
use. Nevertheless, they are included here because they continue to be used.

In general, these statistical tests and measures are most useful when initially
building a model. Given their problematic interpretations and potential to
mislead, however, many authors discourage routinely including them in published
work.

Installation
------------

Verhulst supports Python 3.2, 3.3, and 3.4.

Verhulst currently exists in a private repository for the HaystaqDNA GitHub
organization. `pip https://github.com/pypa/pip`_ can install the package using
the `git+ssh` protocol and a username:

::

   pip install git+ssh://git@github.com:HaystaqDNA/verhulst.git

The following packages are dependencies for Verhulst:

- `numpy http://www.numpy.org/`_
- `scipy http://www.scipy.org/`_
- `matplotlib http://matplotlib.org/`_

In addition, the `statsmodels.distributions` module is vendorized.

Documentation
-------------

Documentation is written in
`reStructured Text http://docutils.sourceforge.net/rst.html`_ and
`numpydoc https://github.com/numpy/numpydoc`_ and generated by
`Sphinx http://sphinx-doc.org/`_. The
`Makefile https://www.gnu.org/software/make/`_ in `docs/` contains targets for
HTML and PDF documentation. The following command generates HTML documentation:

::

   $ make html

Run a local webserver (e.g., `python3 -m http.server`) in the directory
`docs/_build/html/` in order to view the documentation in a web browser.

Contribute
----------

Fork this repository on GitHub and make changes to a branch. Write tests to
demonstrate that your changes fix a bug or implement a feature as expected.
Send a pull request to @rpetchler to have your fork integrated.

References
----------

.. [1] Hosmer, David W., Jr., Stanley Lemeshow, and Rodney X. Sturdivant.
   *Applied Logistic Regression*. 3rd ed. New York: Wiley, 2013.
.. [2] Long, J. Scott. *Regression Models for Categorical and Limited Dependent
   Variables*. Thousand Oaks, CA: SAGE Publications, 1997.
