Verhulst
========

Verhulst is a `BSD-licensed <http://opensource.org/licenses/BSD-3-Clause>`_
Python library for evaluating binary logistic regressions fitted with
`scikit-learn <http://scikit-learn.org/>`_.

scikit-learn takes a machine learning approach to data analysis and executes
numerical routines using
`liblinear <http://www.csie.ntu.edu.tw/~cjlin/liblinear/>`_, which does not
return certain intermediate results of the logistic regression fitting.
`statsmodels http://statsmodels.sourceforge.net/`_ takes an econometric
approach to data analysis but is not fully compatible with scikit-learn
classifiers. Verhulst aims to fill this gap by providing a consistent API to
statistical analysis and plotting routines commonly used to evaluate logistic
regression fit.

Features
--------

Statistical Analysis

- Pearson Chi-Square Statistic and Deviance
- Hosmer–Lemeshow Tests
- Likelihood Measures
- Summary Measures
- Casewise Statistics

Plotting

- Diagnostic Plots
- Residual Plots
- Goodness-of-Fit Plots

Installation
------------

Verhulst supports Python 3.2, 3.3, and 3.4.

`pip https://github.com/pypa/pip`_ can install Verhulst from GitHub:

::

   pip install git+git://github.com/rpetchler/verhulst.git

The following packages are dependencies for Verhulst:

- `numpy http://www.numpy.org/`_
- `scipy http://www.scipy.org/`_
- `matplotlib http://matplotlib.org/`_

In addition, the `statsmodels.distributions` module is vendorized.

Documentation
-------------

Documentation is written in
`reStructured Text http://docutils.sourceforge.net/rst.html`_ and
`numpydoc https://github.com/numpy/numpydoc`_ and generated by
`Sphinx http://sphinx-doc.org/`_. The
`Makefile https://www.gnu.org/software/make/`_ in `docs/` contains targets for
HTML and PDF documentation. The following command generates HTML documentation:

::

   $ make html

Run a local webserver (e.g., `python3 -m http.server`) in the directory
`docs/_build/html/` in order to view the documentation in a web browser.

Contribute
----------

Fork this repository on GitHub and make changes to a branch. Write tests to
demonstrate that your changes fix a bug or implement a feature as expected.
Send a pull request to @rpetchler to have your fork integrated.
